[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The industrialized
agriculture has defined
the nutritional
profile of our society.
And it's a con.
>> If we look at actually the
food situation right now as it
is, 40% of it is wasted.
>> Soil is the building
block of civilization.
If we don't respect
our soil, then we're
disrespecting ourselves.
>> Everything starts
with the soil.
>> The society that doesn't know
where its food comes from is
a society without culture.
And humanity without
culture will perish.
Something's wrong, and
we lost the capacity
to question ourselves.
>> We can design systems that
actually address all the big
problems that face
us as a society.
It's important to aim
for sustainability,
but in permaculture, we try to
actually do better than that.
>> It can be so easy to feed the
world if we all would just think
the permaculture way, Have
you seen anything like this?
So beautiful.
>> Why not to grow my own food.
Even if I have to work in an
office or behind the desk,
I can do a garden even
in my veranda or my roof.
>> We're not just wanting
to make people aware of some
of the challenges which we
face in the 21st century,
but also that there are ways
in which people can be part
of the solution with
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> With some permaculture, we
can make our existing landscapes
a lot more productive.
When we look at
the issue of food
and we see all these
statistics that we're
going to have to double food
production to feed the world's
population in so many
decades, but if we
look at actually the food
situation right now, as it is,
40% of it is wasted.
So that's why
permaculture is also
concerned about what we call
the invisible structures
and the structures of
business and recycling
and the relationships
between things,
and not just only the
production of food.
Here's our 2 and 1/2
hectare property.
And the whole property
has been designed
according to permaculture.
So one of the first
things in the design
is looking at your
sun and wind factors
so that you can
identify opportunities
for creating microclimates.
So we call this a sector
analysis, our summer and winter
sun pathways and the different
winds that come in and influence
the properties.
So up the back here
is it rises up,
we've got our
subtropical food forest,
which is created as a
frost-free microclimate.
And here we used a
form of biomimicry.
So you can see here
this is the plan
of how this was implemented over
the first seven to eight years.
Now we're going to head
up to the food forest
where I've created my
frost-free microclimate.
So here in the
subtropics, while we
have these very tropical
summers, in winter,
we can have beautiful warm days
of around 20 degrees Celsius.
But at night, it can
get down to 0 and even
minus 4 degrees down in the
lowest part of the property.
So here we're just
a little bit higher,
so it doesn't get quite as cold.
But by creating this
beautiful canopy here,
we've created a
frost-free microclimate
for growing our frost-sensitive
tropical and subtropical fruits.
One of the great things
about permaculture
is you can apply it
anywhere because it's
based on principles like
how, in this situation,
do we conserve energy?
How do we store energy?
How do we link the systems?
How can we create cycles for
nutrients and water and energy?
And how can we maximize the
productivity of the system?
How can we ensure that
we're building in mechanisms
to adjust and accept feedback?
And so it's really
directives on how we think
and how we design
systems, rather than
just a particular technique for
how you grow a particular crop.
And those techniques are very
specific to different climates
and to different
scales of operation.
So we can apply
permaculture in any climate.
All right.
So here we are at the temperate
food forest or orchard actually.
And so here we
don't have a canopy.
The tropical food forest
is very different.
Here we want the
cold air to come in
because the citrus are
one of the main crops
that we have here.
We've got 18 different
varieties and they really
enjoy a little
chill in the winter.
And it brings the sugars
out in the fruits.
So here you can see our workers.
Our workforce for the orchard.
They're our orchard
managers over there,
our little flock of ducks.
And they fertilize
the trees for us
and they keep the bugs
down and eat the weeds.
And they have a wonderful time
working hard all day long.
We've just got these
little ponds here for them.
And they love to go for a swim.
But when they swim, they also
like to go to the toilet.
So after a week, this
is nice and juicy
and so then we can just tip
this up to irrigate a tree.
And so all that beautiful water
and nutrients feeds this tree.
And then we'll move it
along to another spot
and we'll fill it up
with some fresh water.
And next week, we'll do
the whole thing again.
So it keeps the ducks happy,
it keeps the trees happy.
And of course, the
produce keeps us happy.
Oh, you can smell
something, can't you?
You smell something good?
Meet Poly, Poly Culture,
the permaculture pig.
She is our champion
poo producer.
So she provides the
nutrients and the manure
for our compost to keep
the garden growing.
And we've trained her.
She sits for treats.
And so the training means that
we can take her for little
walks down into the orchard
when there's any fallen fruit.
And she'll clean that
up off the ground.
And we also take her
for little walks up.
We've got a special area where
she goes to work tractoring.
And she is just the most
amazing biological plow.
So this is our highest point.
So we've got this
small pond here
that gravity feeds
the water down
for the gardens and
all the animal systems.
And so the water movement
through the entire property
is managed and directed
from this point.
And of course, just
below this dam,
we have our food forest system.
Just been harvesting
some beautiful bunches
of bananas from here.
And there's some macadamia
nuts ripening up through there.
And of course, it's so important
to have flowers in the system
so we keep our pollinators
around and something
for the honeybees
and for the insects.
So this is a really
ancient form of citrus.
We call it the finger
lime because it's sort
of about as big as your finger.
This plant is actually native
to our local rainforests.
And the chefs
absolutely love this one
because you look
at what's inside.
It's a lime caviar.
Whoa.
That is just so good.
Taro's one of the key staple
foods throughout the tropics.
And actually,
what's interesting,
this is another example
of permaculture at work,
turning problems into solutions.
So we had big problems
with drainage here.
We dug a drain here.
I used the soil from that
to build up our garden beds,
and now we're growing
the taro in the drain.
So the drain is
a production area
for this crop that likes it wet.
The orientation of the
buildings, of course,
for passive solar design.
So here in the
southern hemisphere,
our sun's coming
in from the north.
And the buildings
are clustered so it's
convenient for services like
energy and water and so forth.
And then the production
systems are surrounding that.
So we've got our main
vegetable-producing areas here,
created special
microclimates in there.
The water systems, of course,
are managed all the way
through from the top of the
property, this little high dam
down to this one here, which
supports that microclimate, then
through a series
of swales and then
drains and ponds down to
the bottom of the property.
And of course, we're
closing the loop with things
like our composting toilets
are providing nutrients
for the garden that feed us
that go back to the composting
toilet, so looking
at ways that we can
close the loop through here.
And so on so many levels, we
are applying permaculture design
from the big property
concept right down
to the little details.
There you go.
Here we've got our
waste treatment system.
Well, it's not waste.
There's no waste
in permaculture.
It's all resource.
So here we have a
reed bed that treats
the greywater from the
shower and the kitchen
in our accommodation facility.
Here, we've got our
composting toilets.
So we welcome people to
come and make a deposit
to help the garden grow.
And so we've got our
main toilets up there,
and this is the
composting chamber.
This bamboo, this
sequesters several tons
of carbon every year.
So all the bamboo on
this place, that's
my carbon sequestration
for my overseas teaching
work, for my flights.
And this one is
absolutely delicious.
This shoot came up two weeks
ago, and in the next two months
it's going to grow
40 meters high.
It's amazing, isn't it?
The fastest growing plant
on the planet is bamboo.
Certainly, it's important
to aim for sustainability,
but in permaculture, we try to
actually do better than that.
For example, when
I got this land,
this 2 and 1/2 hectares of
an empty barren cow pasture,
I could have sustained this very
sustainably as a cow pasture
in perpetuity and
produced one cow a year.
But we can do better than that.
So that's sustainable.
But I had the capacity
here to actually
regenerate this property, to
produce so much more than just
one cow a year.
And so here we are, 22
years down the track
and there's thousands
of plant species.
I've got over 100 bird species
that live here permanently
or come here seasonally.
We have an abundance
of wildlife.
We produce a large
percentage of our food.
And we feed the courses
and the cafe clients
and the people that
come through here.
Some of the most inspiring
systems I've seen develop
have been in deserts
and arid zones,
some of the harshest
environments in the world.
And then, of course,
cities, which is really
another form of desert.
But yeah, permaculture
systems can
do a lot to make our cities
and urban environments
more resilient, more
people-friendly,
and produce a lot
more of our needs.
[MUSIC PLAYING]